Professional Summary:

I am currently working as a system engineer specializing in network, telecommunication, and IT management. I have extensive experience overseeing the development, implementation, and management of telecommunications NGN’s networks, and information technology systems along with cloud platforms that improve accessibility and resolve networking issues for performance-based operation. This experience has helped me develop a range of relevant skills, including in-depth knowledge of cloud computing, DevOps solution, and telecommunication switching. Moreover, monitoring the complete networking under a fully phased DevOps environment (For a Telecommunication service) gives me in-depth knowledge about the telecommunication system as long as cloud-based web technology. Confident project leadership and familiarity with a range of technological applications. Being an effective systems engineer requires a mastery of such skills, and I am dedicated to applying them to the next position I hold.


Areas of expertise:
•	Cloud computing
•	Amazon Web Service
•	Linode cloud computing 
•	DevOps
•	Telecommunication NGN Networks                                                               
•	System administrator 
•	Web Development



Technical Proficiencies:

Platform:  Amazon Web Service, Linode cloud computing, Vmware, Oracle virtual box, Cisco networking device, and Huawei networking devices 
Tools:  AWS console, Jenkins, Git, Docker, Kubernetes, Ansible, Nagios, Wireshark, pgAdmin4, PRTG, Zabbix
Operating and server system: Windows server 2016 and Linux (Centos, Red hat, Ubuntu, kali Linux, Parrot OS, Metasploit)
Programming Language: Python, Django framework, flask framework, Bash striping
Database Proficiency: Postgres, My SQL
Project link: 
Work Experiences:

System Engineer                                                                                         January 1, 2019, to continuing
Mir Telecom Limited
House -4 Road -21, Gulshan -1, Dhaka-1000

Responsibilities:	


-	Experienced in conducting cloud service maps, TCO analysis, and security considerations as part of a wider cloud adoption Framework.  
-	Strong knowledge of the AWS Well-Architected Frameworks.
-	Experienced in working on Docker, creating Docker images, and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations, domain configuration, docker volume management, docker swarm management, and deployment with docker-compose.
-	Develop and maintain a self-managed Kubernetes cluster in AWS and on-premises using kubeadm tools.
-	Prepared manifest for deploying production workload in Kubernetes cluster.
-	Experienced in Designing and implementing cloud infrastructure mostly using AWS EC2, ECS, S3, ELB, auto-scaling, and site-to-site VPN 
-	Deliver solution by writing proper CICD pipeline in Jenkins incorporated with Kubernetes and docker deployment plugins in Jenkins.
-	Write multiple scripts and programs using python, bash to support infrastructure.
-	Experienced installing, configuring, and maintaining different services such as Nginx, Apache, httpd, DNS, Postgres, My SQL, and MariaDB in physical, virtual environment, and cloud platforms.
-	Automated configuration management and deployments using Ansible playbooks and Yaml for resource declaration



Assistant System Engineer                                                  September 15, 2013 - December 31, 2018
Mir Telecom Limited
Red Crescent Borak Tower-2 (Level-7), 71-72, Old Elephant Road


Responsibilities:	


-	    Network health monitoring for core NGN network, distribution, and access level.
-	    Network fault /incident analysis reporting and initiate to resolve.
-	    Analysis and fault escalation of SIP and TDM traces to respective IGW, ICX, and IOS networks.
-	    Supervision of transmission, core, Datacom alarm and escalate the issue to 2nd level.
-	    SIP and ISUP code analysis/response modification/hunting enable for different operators and carriers.
-	    Responsible for communication with international carriers and domestic various operators.
-	    Ensure proactively network security and QoS of service.
-	    Troubleshooting different types of IGW, ICX, and IOS technical complaints and initiating to resolve.
-	    Following and maintaining Standard SLA with internal and external.
-	    Monitor Time duration of Trouble Ticket as per set standards and inform respective Clients on the    status of their TTs (Trouble Ticket)
-	    Ensure that TTs are resolved or reported as per SOP (Standard Operating Procedure



Assistant System Engineer                                                                             July 5, 2012 - July 30, 2013
Switch Com limited
Level# 6, B&B Empire House No# 116, Road No# 11 Banani C/A, Dhaka-1213


Responsibilities:	


-	    Designing and implementing new network solutions and/or improving the efficiency of networks.
-	    Consulting the planning and design of Cisco and Huawei-based data networks.
-	    Deploy bandwidth, data network monitoring system along with second level support for Cisco and Huawei based network.
-	    System health check and providing support during maintenance and planned work execution.
-	    Installing, configuring, and supporting network equipment including routers, switches and firewalls.
-	    Responsible for the maintenance, configuration, and reliable operation of computer systems, network servers, and virtualization.
-	    Develop and write procedures for installation, use, and troubleshooting of communications hardware and software.
-	    Test and evaluate hardware and software with the vendor to determine efficiency, reliability, and compatibility with an existing system and make purchase recommendations.
-	    Provide documentation and technical specifications to IT staff for planning and implementing new or upgrades of IT infrastructure.





Educational qualification:
B.Sc  Engineering   -  2011
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
East-West University, Bangladesh



Professional training and Certification summary:

-	AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate: Successfully complete the AWS Associate Certification 2021
-	Red Hat System Administration (RHCSA) & Red Hat Certified Engineer (RHCE)
-	Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)
-	Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)
-	Python and Django for web development and API development.
-	Microsoft Certified system administrator (MCSA, Windows server-2016)


References:

		Reference: 01	Reference: 02
Name	:	Abu Toha Muhammad Kamruzzaman	Md. Aktar Khan
Organization	:	Switch Com Ltd.	Mir Telecom Ltd.
Designation	:	Managing Director	General Manager (O&M)

Address	
:	Level# 6, B&B Empire House No# 116, Road No# 11 Banani C/A, Dhaka-1213, 	House -4 Road -21, Dhaka 1000, Gulshan -1, Dhaka
Mobile	:	01819-238444	01713035618
E-Mail	:	managingdirector@switchcom.net
aktar@mirtelecom-bd.com

Relation	:	Professional	Professional
			







